Azure HDInsight[45] is a service that deploys Hadoop on Microsoft Azure.
HDInsight uses a Windows-based Hadoop distribution that was jointly developed
with Hortonworks and allows programming extensions with .NET (in addition to
Java). HDInsight also supports creation of Hadoop clusters using Linux with
Ubuntu.[45] By deploying HDInsight in the cloud, organizations can spin up the
number of nodes they want and only get charged for the compute and storage
that is used.[45] Hortonworks implementations can also move data from the
on-premises datacenter to the cloud for backup, development/test, and bursting
scenarios.[45] It is also possible to run Cloudera or Hortonworks Hadoop
clusters on Azure Virtual Machines.
Hadoop on Amazon EC2/S3 services

It is possible to run Hadoop on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) and Amazon
Simple Storage Service (S3).[46] As an example, The New York Times used 100
Amazon EC2 instances and a Hadoop application to process 4 TB of raw image
TIFF data (stored in S3) into 11 million finished PDFs in the space of 24
hours at a computation cost of about $240 (not including bandwidth).[47]

There is support for the S3 object store in the Apache Hadoop releases, though
this is below what one expects from a traditional POSIX filesystem.
Specifically, operations such as rename() and delete() on directories are not
atomic, and can take time proportional to the number of entries and the amount
of data in them.
Amazon Elastic MapReduce

Elastic MapReduce (EMR)[48] was introduced by Amazon.com in April 2009.
Provisioning of the Hadoop cluster, running and terminating jobs, and handling
data transfer between EC2(VM) and S3(Object Storage) are automated by Elastic
MapReduce. Apache Hive, which is built on top of Hadoop for providing data
warehouse services, is also offered in Elastic MapReduce.[49]

Support for using Spot Instances[50] was later added in August 2011.[51]
Elastic MapReduce is fault tolerant for slave failures,[52] and it is
recommended to only run the Task Instance Group on spot instances to take
advantage of the lower cost while maintaining availability.[53]

